JUDY WOODRUFF: Millions of
Americans tuned in to watch
former FBI Director James Comey
testify before
Congress yesterday.
But, as Hari Sreenivasan
explores, what they saw differed
widely, often depending on where
they live.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We look at
the reaction across the country
to the Comey hearing, the
Russia investigations
and President Trump's
first few months in
office with Jon Ralston,
editor of The Nevada
Independent, who joins
us today from California,
Ashton Marra of
West Virginia Public
Broadcasting, and Brandon
Smith with Indiana
Public Broadcasting.
Ashton, let me start with you.
Millions of people
watched this in D.C.
Quite a few watched President
Trump on the Rose Garden today
deny what former Director
Comey said.
How does this compare to the
reaction in your community?
Were people paying
attention to this?
ASHTON MARRA, West Virginia
Public Broadcasting: I think in
West Virginia, generally, there
is the same kind of -- there's
the same level of attention
as there is kind of generally
across the country.
But I will say, Hari, that a lot
that's happening in Washington
is being overshadowed by what's
happening here at the local
level in West Virginia.
We're about 19 days away
from a government shutdown.
And if lawmakers don't approve
a budget by June 30, that
means all state workers get
laid off, there's no
more funding for any
government services.
And so what's happening
at the local level
for West Virginians
is a much bigger issue
than what's going
on in Washington.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jon
Ralston, all politics local?
Is that the case
in Nevada as well?
JON RALSTON, The
Nevada Independent:
Well, to some extent.
Our legislature just ended.
But the shadow of Trump is
over everything, as you know.
They did a lot of things
in reaction to Trump,
the legislative leaders.
It's controlled
by Democrats here.
We have a Republican governor
who is not that Trump-friendly.
They passed some bills to try
to codify the Obamacare here.
They sent out a lot of
press releases about Trump.
Nevada's an unusual state, to
put it mildly, as all of you
know, but we also are one of
the few states to go
completely Democratic in 2016.
Went for Clinton.
The legislature turned.
We had two Republican
congressional seats
flip to the Democrats.
So there is not -- it's
not exactly Trump-friendly
territory in the first place.
But I think that all politics
is local here, in the sense
that people are reacting to what
just happened in the
legislature, what kind of
education policies were passed.
And, of course, the big issue
here, which nobody is talking
about elsewhere, is, we
have a new legalization of
marijuana and a pot tax, which
overshadows a lot of things.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All
right, we will get to
those issues in a second.
Brandon Smith, people
outside the reporter class,
the bubble that you're
in at the statehouse,
were they watching?
Were they tuned in?
BRANDON SMITH, Indiana Public
Broadcasting: Not nearly in
the kind of -- with the fervor
you saw in the nation's capital.
Here, it was -- I think, as
Ashton mentioned, it's just sort
of viewing this same way they
viewed everything coming
out of Washington, D.C.,
these last few months.
Certainly, walking around
the statehouse yesterday,
which is where I work,
you heard the audio
of the Comey hearing coming
out of a lot of offices.
And it was on at the lobbyist
bar across the street.
But beyond that, no,
people weren't paying
nearly as close attention.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Brandon, staying with you
for a second, what are
people in Indiana paying
attention to?
BRANDON SMITH: Well,
it's a couple big
things, one, the economy.
This is a heavy manufacturing
state, which is partly
why Donald Trump's
message of bringing
American jobs back, referencing
Carrier, which had said that
it was pulling out of Indiana
and all of that, people
care about that here.
They pay a lot of attention to
that here, that and health care.
This is a state that went
through its own version
of Medicaid expansion
with Mike Pence's
HIP 2.0, which is what he
called Indiana's program.
And that has enrolled 400,000
Hoosiers in the program.
And if that gets taken away,
that's a lot of people losing
out on affordable health
care.
And that's something people
here really care about.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ashton
Marra, Medicaid expansion
also something in West
Virginia, but there
is also a lot of
talk about coal jobs.
The president uses that
opportunity whenever he gets...
ASHTON MARRA: Right.
The president came and visited
the state before the Republican
primary last year, and he came
to talk about coal and to
show his support for the coal
industry, and, since he's taken
office, has continued talking
about putting coal miners
back to work in West Virginia.
I will say that the state,
you know, we're on the edge of
this fiscal cliff, essentially,
but in the past couple of
months, we have seen a rebound
in the coal industry and a
really small increase in the
amount of money we're bringing
in from the coal severance
tax.
So, at the local level, what
West Virginia voters see is,
we voted for someone who said
he was going to put miners
back to work, and then just as
recently as yesterday, one coal
mine in Southern West Virginia
announced, hey, we're going
to open our doors again and
put some 300 coal
miners back to work.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jon Ralston,
besides the pot tax, what else
are people in Nevada paying
attention to?
JON RALSTON: Well, you mentioned
the Medicaid expansion.
This is a state that
did expand Medicaid.
We had a Republican
governor, one of the
few to expand Medicaid.
There is now a bill sitting on
his desk that has gotten a lot
of national attention already
that would be Medicaid for all,
in other words, universal health
care in the state of Nevada.
There's a lot of
emotion behind that.
It's no telling yet whether the
governor is going to sign it.
I think it's 50/50 at
best, maybe leaning
slightly against it.
Health care is a
big issue in Nevada.
We have had a lot of uninsured.
The Medicaid expansion
helped hundreds of
thousands of Nevadans.
And now you have our U.S.
senator, Dean Heller,
the only Republican
incumbent running in a
state that was won by Clinton,
going all over the map on
Medicaid expansion, first saying
that he wants to phase it out,
then coming back today and
correcting that and saying,
well, he's not so sure.
And so that issue of Medicaid
expansion and whether we will
be the only state in the state
in the country to have Medicaid
for all if the governor signs
that bill is a huge issue
here.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I want to
ask all of you a question
about the level of support that
exists for the president
among those voters that
stuck with him in the polls.
Recent polling from The
Washington Post on ABC
on Wednesday reveals
a majority, 56 percent
of Americans say Trump
is interfering with the
Russia investigations,
rather than cooperating.
His approval ratings are
relatively low right now.
Brandon, let me start with you.
BRANDON SMITH: Well, Indiana
is as much Trump country
as you are going to find.
He won the state here
by 19 points in 2016.
And I'm sure that number
isn't as strong as it was in
November, but it's still pretty
strong here.
I think that the overriding
sense among Hoosiers is, a lot
of this stuff is distraction or
it's not Donald Trump's
fault, but it's distracting
from the real work, and
so they're still counting
on him to fulfill his promises.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ashton Marra?
ASHTON MARRA: Yes, I
think the same is true
here in West Virginia.
President Trump won the state
at the largest majority that's
ever happened over a Democratic
candidate.
And so I think, for the
most part, Trump supporters
in West Virginia are
still Trump supporters,
and they feel that way because
of the things that are happening
that we have already talked
about, things at the local
level, like this small
bump in the coal industry.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Jon
Ralston, Nevada being
a purple to blue state?
JON RALSTON: Yes, Nevada,
as you know, Trump lost
here by a couple of points.
You have essentially
three states here.
You have the two urban
areas of Reno and Las Vegas.
Then you have rural Nevada,
where Trump won in a landslide.
They're the kind of people
where if Donald Trump shot
somebody on Las Vegas Boulevard
south of the Strip, they
would still support him.
The urban area of Las
Vegas, three-quarters
of the vote sometimes is
very, very Democratic,
not Trump country.
And then we have the swing
county of Washoe County, which
is Reno and Sparks, which is
more closely divided.
But I think that that leans a
little bit Democratic now when
it comes to presidential races.
So it's three states.
I don't think anyone's
views are changing because
of what's happened so far.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
well, all three of your states
have Senate contests in the
midterms coming up, so I'm sure
we will check back in with you.
Brandon Smith, Ashton Marra,
Jon Ralston, thank you all.
BRANDON SMITH: Thank you.